>> David Khourshid: The first thing
that we're going to be talking about
is actually basic react
state anti patterns.
It's the beginning of the workshop, so
we're not going to be getting too deep
into philosophy or principles or
anything like that.
Instead, I want to cover three
very important state ante patterns
that I see in pretty much any project that
I work in or I have looked at in reaction.
The first one is deriving states.
So we want to learn when we should
calculate values instead of storing them.
And this is a pattern
that I see all the time.
So the way that you recognize this pattern
is that you might see a use state and
a use effect combination
where the use effect is
the one that's calculating new states.
And this seems really convenient because
the whole way that useEffect works
with dependency arrays is that whenever
any value in the dependency array changes,
it's going to execute something
inside that useEffect function.
And so you might think, okay,
this is a great place for
me to calculate some new states,
but it's actually not.
This is one of those fun ones where
you could just go into a code base and
just start refactoring your way.
So NC pattern scratch.
So, for example, let's say that
we're going to make a simple app and
let's say that we're
doing a coffee order app.
So I might have orders,
setOrders, useState-Order,
and these might be just a string for now,
or actually they're gonna be orders.
So let's make a proper order type.
And so I also need to import use date.
All right, so
let's say that we have an order and
the order can be for
a cappuccino, espresso, latte,
mocha, stuff like that in
each order has a price,
which has a number and also a quantity.
So you might have seen that like,
okay, we have our orders and
we probably have some UI
to update those orders, but
we also want to calculate the total of
these orders so we'll have total settotal.
And also there's a reason that I
do have claw turned on right now.
It's because it's probably going to
suggest the wrong thing, which is great.
Claude makes mistakes,
just like humans make mistakes, and
other AI powered coding assistants too.
So you can see immediately it's
trying to do a useEffect, why?
Because it's going to calculate
the totals in that useEffect.
So I mean, raise your hand if you've
seen this pattern in your code base.
Probably everyone.
Yeah, it's just everywhere.
So what is so wrong with this?
Well, we have an unnecessary use effect,
which is going to cause an unnecessary
render when the orders change.
And really, this is derived state.
So I want you to recognize
this pattern over here.
We have a useState, and then we have a
useEffect that's setting that used state.
So what's the alternative here?
Well, we can actually just completely
get rid of that useEffect and
just set the totals directly.
And so
this is really all that you need to do.
Then, of course, you could show
the orders, show the total amounts,
and you might have some UI for
setting the orders too.
But the point is that we are calculating
this derived state directly inside render.
And I know what some of you
might be thinking, too.
You might be thinking,
okay, yeah, this is great.
So I'm just going to wrap
this in a UseMemo and go.
Hold on.
Before you start using UseMemo,
just start with this.
Calculate states directly in
render when it can be derived.
We have our source of truth here,
which is the orders,
and we have the total,
which can be derived from orders.
Now, this is an obvious example,
but as you'll see in the exercise,
some of these might be
a little bit hidden and
harder to recognize, but once you see it,
you really can't unsee it.
Claude's even recommending
that I use Memo, but
the idea is that you can compute states
directly in render and then use that.